# Changelog

### v0.2.11-alpha.2
* If installing from a directory or zip resources that was not initially a repository clone then we won't have any meta data. If we don't have meta data then we don't need to check out the original commit.
* Patched an issue where the clean install feature failed to work. Improved sanity checking on the target path for wiping a directory to better ensure the root directory cannot be wiped.

### v0.2.11-alpha.1
* Added better handling the cleanup scripts (and others) to avoid possible scenarios where an undefined value would cause the install process to fail.

### v0.2.11-alpha
* Added a new set of cleanup scripts that run after the afterInstall set. This allows all participating levels to do cleanup on their behalf independent of and after all participating levels complete their work.
* Enhancement that allows one branch in a repository to depend on other branches in the same repository (e.g. branch A depends on branches B and C) vs only being able to use dependencies if they resided in complete separate repositories.

### v0.2.10-alpha.1
* Patched a few lines that didn't get fully changed for the stdio behavior update.

### v0.2.10-alpha
* Changed how execSync() calls are made for the scripts that are called. Previously we captured the output and then rendered it after the script ran. We now allow the stdin, stdout, and stderr pipes to be inherited by the child process running the scripts so you can see real-time output from the script.

### v0.2.9-alpha.4
* Removed the part of the readme file that lists the current version. NPM already shows that information and it's one less thing for me to forget to do...

### v0.2.9-alpha.3
* Patched an issue where the parent project's environment variables were not restored after installing dependencies.

### v0.2.9-alpha.2
* Updated the table of contents in the readme file to include a link to the new Environment Variables section.

### v0.2.9-alpha.1
* Fixed mistake in the readme file where the current version number was not updated.

### v0.2.9-alpha
* Mum now sets environment variables to make accessing various critical directory paths much easier and less error prone. [MUM_CACHE_DIR, MUM_CURRENT_INSTALL_DIR, MUM_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR, MUM_INITIAL_INSTALL_DIR]

### v0.2.8-alpha
* Added the ability to specify a name property in a dependency definition to allow naming of repositories that may have name collisions or no name at all.

### v0.2.7-alpha
* Added the ability to update to a different commit-ish than the one originally installed by passing an extra argument of the new commit-ish to mum update.

### v0.2.6-alpha.4
* Patched an issue where uploading files to the .mum cache locations would cause the next update to fail due to git pull errors.

### v0.2.6-alpha.3
* Made it easier to edit the mumi.json file by storing it in prettified format. 

### v0.2.6-alpha.2
* Patched an issue that caused the deployment to fail if a repository cache location symlink already existed.

### v0.2.6-alpha.1
* Removed some debug statements. Updated the readme file to the correct current version number.

### v0.2.6-alpha
* Added the ability to specify a name property in the mum.json configuration file. When set this name will be used to create a symlink to that repository's cache directory that has a hash for a name.

### v0.2.5-alpha.2

* Updated the readme document.
* Added the ability to specify an `install.scripts` key without defining an `install.map` key.

### v0.2.5-alpha.1

* Patched an issue where using relative paths starting with ./ for excludes would break the process because rsync doesn't allow exclude paths to start with ./

### v0.2.5-alpha

* Added a clean option for updates.

### v0.2.4-alpha.2

* Patched an issue where the directory used for running the installation scripts was incorrect.

### v0.2.4-alpha.1

* Patched an issue where mum update failed due to the file permissions being changed on files inside the mum cache of the repository.

### v0.2.4-alpha

* Added support for a custom file excludes list for each entry in the install map.

### v0.2.3-alpha

* CAUTION: Changed the .before and .after scripts properties to .beforeInstall and .afterInstall
* Added two new scripts properties: beforeSync and afterSync.

### v0.2.2-alpha

* Significant improvements to the installation process to process pre and post installs in a more intelligent order
* Added support to actually see output generated by a pre / post install script that has a non-zero exit code.
* Added support for a special debug command that is handy for testing mum itself during development of complex installation processes.

### v0.2.1-alpha

* Added support for any installation to run a clean install (wipe directory contents before installing/updating).
* Patched an issue where cancelling installation would allow installation to continue.
* Updated the installation process so that you need answer yes to install only for the first installed resource. Dependencies install without prompting again.

### v0.2.0-alpha

* New mum.json format
* Support for running custom scripts (triggers) before and after installation.
* Improved support for dependencies to avoid naming collisions.
* Added support for installing from a local directory
* Added support for installing from a local tar or zip archive file.
* Added the ability to install from a git repository at a specific commit-ish (tag/branch/sha1).
* Added support for automatically detecting which type of source is provided. (Directory, tar/zip file, repository URL)
* Added support for setting root-relative (absolute) paths in the mum.json configuration `installTo` property.
* Updated the readme to document the new features and mum.json format.

### v0.1.0-alpha.1

* Added a table of contents to the top of the readme file.
* Added anchors to every significant header in the readme file.
* Fixed the overview for the advanced tutorial in the readme file. The original concept for the tutorial was changed after the overview was written.
* Improved a few grammar related items in the readme file.
* Improved installation instructions for Ubuntu.
* Fixed the URL linking to the git repository branch for the basic tutorial example code.
* Added a URL linking to the git repository branch for the advanced tutorial example code.

### v0.1.0-alpha

* Install from a remote git repository to a local directory.
* Recursive dependency resolution.
* Update an existing project without having to pass any arguments to the command.
